README.md, before:

# Speech To BSL Hackathon

## How it works

1. Convert speech to text via browser Web Speech API
2. Convert spoken English text to BSL grammar text via OpenAI chatGPT
3. Convert BSL text to pose files via API from sign translate project (under hood is using a machine learning model training on sign language poses)
4. Convert pose sequences to a video to visualise the poses via code from sign language processing libraries like pose-format and opencv

## Requirements

- Node 18.19.0
- Python 3.11
- OpenAI API key, either Azure or Chatgpt, and set API key environment variable in terminal e.g. on macos run `export OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_key_here>`

## To run

- Start frontend project in one terminal

```bash
cd speech-to-bsl
npm install
npm run dev
```

- Start backend server in another terminal

```bash
cd server
pip install -r requirements.txt
flask run
```

For further details, read the readme files in each folder.

## Attribution

- sign translate project: https://github.com/sign/translate
- sign language processing projects: https://github.com/sign-language-processing
- OpenAI chatGPT: https://platform.openai.com/overview
- Web Speech API: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SpeechRecognition

Commit message:

Add detailed notes on how the application works

README.md, after:

# Speech To BSL Hackathon

## How the application works

1. Click start microphone and speak
2. Speech converted to text as spoken via React library `react-speech-recognition`<https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-speech-recognition>, which uses web speech api <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SpeechRecognition>
3. Text sent to backend using api GET `/bsl`
4. Text converted to BSL grammar by OpenAI (either ChatGPT or Azure OpenAI) <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/quickstart> or <https://platform.openai.com/docs/quickstart>
5. BSL text sent to frontend
6. BSL text converted to a pose file via an API <https://us-central1-sign-mt.cloudfunctions.net/spoken_text_to_signed_pose?text=${encodeURIComponent(bslTextTemp)}&spoken=en&signed=bfi> from <https://github.com/sign/translate>
7. Pose file sent to backend using api GET `/video` in bytes
8. Pose file processed via python library `post-format` <https://pose-format.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>
9. Pose file converted to skeleton video via python library `opencv` <https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/>
10. Video sent to frontend
11. Video displayed on page

## Requirements

- Node 18.19.0
- Python 3.11
- OpenAI API key, either Azure or Chatgpt, and set API key environment variable in terminal e.g. on macos run `export OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_key_here>`

## To run

- Start frontend project in one terminal

```bash
cd speech-to-bsl
npm install
npm run dev
```

- Start backend server in another terminal

```bash
cd server
pip install -r requirements.txt
flask run
```

For further details, read the readme files in each folder.

## Attribution

- sign translate project: <https://github.com/sign/translate>
- sign language processing projects: <https://github.com/sign-language-processing>
- OpenAI chatGPT: <https://platform.openai.com/overview>
- Web Speech API: <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SpeechRecognition>
